# Monday 22nd, May 2021

### The scope for today was: 

1. Learn Kubernetes
2. Orchestrate Golang APP via Kubernetes in local

### Achievements

1. To start the kubernetes environment in local, run this command in order to start minikube,
   which gives us the possibility of running kubernetes in local machines 
```
Make start-kubernetes
```

2. In order to start the GoApp Pod, you can run the following command.
```
Make kubernetes-create-go-app
```

3. If you want to check the status of the pods, execute the following command.
``` 
Make kubernetes-list-pods   
```

4. If you want to delete all the pods, execute the following command.
``` 
Make kubernetes-delete-pods
```

5. App is being recovered via Kubernetes automatically if a 500 error happens in the /health route.

6. Port forwarding in local needs to be set up in order to access the pod from outside the cluster. 
   For that the makefile command is the following.
   
```
Make kubernetes-forward-go-app
```

7. If you want to see the logs inside of a pod, you can run the following command.
```
Make kubernetes-logs-go-app
```

8. In order to don't run port forwarding service exposure can be achieved with the following command:
```
kubectl expose pod/go-app --port 8080 --type=NodePort
```   
This command is included in the command:

```
Make kubernetes-create-go-app
```

9. Kubernetes Deployments can be created, this is the way to actually handle real applications.
This gives you the possibility to manage autoscaling.
````
Make kubernetes-deploy-go-app
````

10. Scaling, in order to scale an app and set up a higher number of replicas.
You can run the following command:
```
kubectl edit deploy go-app
```
A vi editor will be opened, modify the replicas section and save.
You will see that the amount of pods has increased to the amount of replicas added.

Other way of doing this is executing the command:
```
kubectl scale deployments go-app --replicas=3
```

11. Enabling Ingress for managing traffic

```
minikube addons enable ingress
```

12. Access to Kubernetes Dashboard UI

Install the dashboard which is disabled by default
```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/dashboard/v2.0.0/aio/deploy/recommended.yaml
```
Enable the proxy for dashboard
```
kubectl proxy
```
Get the Bearer token for the deployment secret
```
kubectl -n kube-system get secret | grep deployment
``` 
The previous command will print something like:

```
deployment-controller-token-swdhl  kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3  4h33m 
```

Copy `deployment-controller-token-{code}` and run `kubectl -n kube-system describe secret deployment-controller-token-{code}`

Copy the Bearer from there and access [Kubernetes Dashboard](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kubernetes-dashboard/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy)

### Personal notes

#### Kubernetes
1. Pods represent an application, and they contain a collection of one or more containers/disk volumes.
For example if we have the GoApp which is going to store logs,
a log collector container could also be living inside the pod. Same could happen with monitoring.

2. Definition of pods can be stored in yaml files, since they represent a kubernetes object.
This helps in order to send configuration to different people, maintain a project and reuse third party set-ups.
   
3. Using kubernetes health-checks can be automatically defined inside the pod configuration, it's called Liveness Probe.
If the liveness probe starts failing, Kubernetes will restart the container automatically, in case this fixes the issue.
   
4. There are several ways of exposing services via kubernetes:
   1. ClusterIp -> You expose the ip addresses inside the cluster, need to access a pod to make requests. 
   2. NodePort -> You expose the minikube ip address, and it assigns a port.
   All requests done to this ip will be mapped, we don't need to do port forwarding1
      
5. In order to not be checking the minikube ip every time, and the exposed port while using NodePort exposing.
The following command will open a web browser with the combination of ip and port
```
minikube service go-app
```
6. Creation of ingress is very easy, we just need to keep working with the services and only expose the service instead
   of the pod, then redirections will be handled dynamically by ingress.